[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Now we're gonna talk
about organization and config. So
this is where we're actually gonna
start building the API and doing stuff.
And it's gonna get kinda crazy.
we're gonna jump a couple steps, and
we're gonna talk about how
to really get the API going.
So, organization and config.
Our API will consist of
many different components.
>> Speaker 1: Typo.
To support the API authentication,
static serving, etc.
So when you hear me say the word API,
I'm not just talking the rest in points.
This is actually really gonna be like
a web server that has an API aspect of it.
So we'll be serving a site or,
actually, maybe I won't.
Maybe I won't serve this site.
But it definitely will
be doing authentication.
So we'll have authentication,
authorization,
identification and then the API.
But what actually makes up the API
portion of the server, right?
So, if we look at our code,
we kinda figure that out already.
We know that in our server js,
we have middleware, we have these routes.
We have these routers, and
then we have these crud operations here.
All right.
We can break that down to
different components of our API.
>> Speaker 1: So the API is really
just a collection of resources
with models to define
how the resources look.
So, and then we have controllers
to access those resources and
routes to let the controllers know how,
all these typos.
It's really hard to read.
Know how to run and expose our API.
>> Speaker 2: We'll have to have
an editor go through-
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: With your whole-
>> Speaker 1: Yeah
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: That old thing again.
That would be great.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Before
we launch the course.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
we should totally do that.
[LAUGH] It's like at least
100 typos in here, so.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] At least 100.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
But, yeah so, resources,
which are like the models.
So our lions our tigers,
those are resources, those are our models.
And then we have controllers that define,
that gives us access to the models.
Those are the things that's
gonna interact with the models.
And then the routes are the things
that are gonna call the controllers.
So they're, the controllers
are the call backs to the routes.
And the controllers themselves
interact with the models.
So we have our routes here,
that our client's talking to.
We have our models over here.
And then right in the middle
is our controllers.
Our controllers are like,
okay, I'm gonna wait for
the router to tell me to do something,
then I'm gonna go talk to the model and
come back and give it back to the client.
So the controller's sitting
right in the middle.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 1: We've been
doing that this whole time.
So
>> Speaker 1: it's nothing different.
So we have our servers.
I'm sorry.
Here's our routes.
Boom, go to lions,
go to lion router, great.
And then we set up these routes here.
So, here are our routes.
>> Speaker 1: This callback function
right here, this is like our controller.
That's the controller is this function,
and what's happening in the function.
And then as far as the models,
it's just this lions array right here.
>> Speaker 1: So,
we've been doing it the whole time.
Our controllers are the thing that's
doing crud operations on the model.
So right here, we're adding to the model.
We're deleting.
These are all our controllers right here
that's interacting with the lions model.
That's being, that's reporting
back to the routes of the request.
>> Speaker 1: So we have our routes,
our controllers, our models.
>> Speaker 1: So
a model is just a blueprint of what
our resource may look like.
So, again, yesterday we were
talking about that, right?
It's just a blueprint of what
our resource is gonna look like.
That's what a model is.
Or somewhat.
>> Speaker 1: So just like the blueprints
we made in the JSON above,
the controllers are the glue
between the routes and the models.
And like I said, we've been using
controllers and routes the whole time.
So MVC is a classical organization
pattern, especially for the servers.
We're gonna take a service
oriented approach instead.
So, we're not gonna organize our
application in traditional MVC pattern,
where it would be something,
in our server we have a folder for
all our controllers, and a folder for
our routes, or a file for our routes, and
they're like a folder with all our models.
We're not gonna take that approach.
The approach we're gonna take is a more
of a service oriented approach instead.
So instead of grouping our
code together by type,
like all controllers go here,
all models go here,
all routes go here, we're gonna group them
together by feature, by functionality.
So, it's like everything to do with a lion
goes here, whether that's a controller,
a test, a route, a model.
Everything about the lion goes here.
Everything about the tiger goes here.
All right?
So we'll bundle the resources, routes,
controllers, model into one directory.
And tests, too.
So that looks like this.
So in our API folder, we'll have for
instance, a todos/ resource.
It has its own model,
its own controller and its own routes.
>> Speaker 1: So that's pretty
much it as far as organization.
And then we have other things like a
config folder where we store config stuff.
Maybe a utilities folder where we store
utility functions to help us out.
Maybe authentication folder to
store authentication stuff.
But the important thing is just how
we organize the models, the API.